README.md, before:

# A Basic Stable IDE config for Neovim

> Why does this repo exist?

This config attempts to provide a rock solid fully featured starting point for someone new to Neovim, or just tired of maintaining the basic IDE components of their config.

> What makes it "rock solid"?

All the included plugins are pinned to a version that ensures they are compatible and will not update potentially introducing errors into your config. For every Neovim release I will update this repo along with the community to keep it up to date with the newest versions.

As I mentioned, this config is meant as a starting point for people new to Neovim who want a familiar IDE experience. The config has a very simple structure that makes it easy to add new plugins.

### Migration guide to lazy from packer

Now this config uses `lazy.nvim` as a plugin manager, so if you are migrating from packer you should probably remove
`$HOME/.local/share/nvim` and re-open nvim to re-install the plugins to not face any issues.

## Install Neovim 0.9

You can install Neovim with your package manager e.g. brew, apt, pacman etc.. but remember that when you update your packages Neovim may be upgraded to a newer version.

If you would like to make sure Neovim only updates when you want it to than I recommend installing from source:

**NOTE** Verify the required [build prerequisites](https://github.com/neovim/neovim/wiki/Building-Neovim#build-prerequisites) for your system.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/neovim/neovim.git
cd neovim
git checkout release-0.9
make CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
sudo make install
sudo mv build/bin/nvim /usr/bin/nvim
```


## Install the config

Make sure to remove or backup your current `nvim` directory

```sh
git clone https://github.com/LunarVim/nvim-basic-ide.git ~/.config/nvim
```

Run `nvim` and wait for the plugins to be installed

**NOTE** (You will notice treesitter pulling in a bunch of parsers the next time you open Neovim)

**NOTE** Checkout this file for some predefined keymaps: [keymaps](https://github.com/LunarVim/nvim-basic-ide/tree/master/lua/keymaps.lua)

## Get healthy

Open `nvim` and enter the following:

```
:checkhealth
```

You'll probably notice you don't have support for copy/paste also that python and node haven't been setup

So let's fix that

First we'll fix copy/paste

- On mac `pbcopy` should be builtin

- On Ubuntu

  ```sh
  sudo apt install xsel # for X11
  sudo apt install wl-clipboard # for wayland
  ```

Next we need to install python support (node is optional)

- Neovim python support

  ```sh
  pip install pynvim
  ```

- Neovim node support

  ```sh
  npm i -g neovim
  ```

We will also need `ripgrep` for Telescope to work:

- Ripgrep

  ```sh
  sudo apt install ripgrep
  ```

---

**NOTE** make sure you have [node](https://nodejs.org/en/) installed, I recommend a node manager like [fnm](https://github.com/Schniz/fnm).

## LaTeX

For using all functionality of [vimtex](https://github.com/lervag/vimtex): 
```:filetype-plugin-indent-on``` and a remote server needs to be started.
The first is normally taken care of by most modern plugin managers.
The second is done by default by neovim. yeah!


Requires latexmk, latexrun, tectonic, arara.
These are part of LaTeX distros like miktex en texlive.

see ```:help vimtex-requirments``` 

Another thing needed. This time for a live preview. Is a pdf reader.
This config works with zathura. [check ejmastnak's article](https://www.ejmastnak.com/tutorials/vim-latex/pdf-reader/#zathura)


## Fonts

I recommend using the following repo to get a "Nerd Font" (Font that supports icons)

[getnf](https://github.com/ronniedroid/getnf)

## Configuration

### LSP

To add a new LSP

First Enter:

```
:Mason
```

and press `i` on the Language Server you wish to install

Next you will need to add the server to this list: [servers](https://github.com/LunarVim/nvim-basic-ide/tree/master/lua/utils/init.lua#L3)
Note: Builtin LSP doesn't contain all lsps from [nvim-lspconfig](https://github.com/neovim/nvim-lspconfig/blob/master/doc/server_configurations.md#terraform_lsp).

If you want to install any from there, for example terraform_lsp(which adds more functionality than terraformls, like complete resource listing),

1. You can add the lsp name in [mason lsp block](https://github.com/LunarVim/nvim-basic-ide/tree/master/user/utils/init.lua#L3-L13)

```lua
-- lua/utils/init.lua
M.servers = {
	"lua_ls",
	"cssls",
	"html",
	"tsserver",
	"pyright",
	"bashls",
	"jsonls",
	"yamlls",
    	"terraform_lsp" -- New LSP
}
```

2. Manually install the binary of the lsp and put it in your path by downloading the binary or through your package manager. For terraform_lsp [example](https://github.com/juliosueiras/terraform-lsp/releases)

### Formatters and linters

Make sure the formatter or linter is installed and add it to this setup function: [null-ls](https://github.com/LunarVim/nvim-basic-ide/blob/e6b6c96280ca730a2564f2e36050df055acfb1a8/lua/user/null-ls.lua#L22)

**NOTE** Some are already setup as examples, remove them if you want

### Plugins

### You can install new plugins here: [plugins](https://github.com/LunarVim/nvim-basic-ide/tree/master/lua/user)

Heres the wiki for installing new plugins refer to this: [wiki](https://github.com/LunarVim/nvim-basic-ide/wiki/adding_new_plugins)

## Plugins

- [lazy](https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim)
- [plenary](https://github.com/nvim-lua/plenary.nvim)
- [nvim-autopairs](https://github.com/windwp/nvim-autopairs)
- [Comment.nvim](https://github.com/numToStr/Comment.nvim)
- [nvim-ts-context-commentstring](https://github.com/JoosepAlviste/nvim-ts-context-commentstring)
- [nvim-web-devicons](https://github.com/nvim-tree/nvim-web-devicons)
- [nvim-tree.lua](https://github.com/kyazdani42/nvim-tree.lua)
- [bufferline.nvim](https://github.com/akinsho/bufferline.nvim)
- [bufdelete.nvim](https://github.com/famiu/bufdelete.nvim)
- [lualine.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-lualine/lualine.nvim)
- [toggleterm.nvim](https://github.com/akinsho/toggleterm.nvim)
- [project.nvim](https://github.com/ahmedkhalf/project.nvim)
- [impatient.nvim](https://github.com/lewis6991/impatient.nvim)
- [indent-blankline.nvim](https://github.com/lukas-reineke/indent-blankline.nvim)
- [alpha-nvim](https://github.com/goolord/alpha-nvim)
- [tokyonight.nvim](https://github.com/folke/tokyonight.nvim)
- [nvim-cmp](https://github.com/hrsh7th/nvim-cmp)
- [cmp-buffer](https://github.com/hrsh7th/cmp-buffer)
- [cmp-path](https://github.com/hrsh7th/cmp-path)
- [cmp_luasnip](https://github.com/saadparwaiz1/cmp_luasnip)
- [cmp-nvim-lsp](https://github.com/hrsh7th/cmp-nvim-lsp)
- [cmp-nvim-lua](https://github.com/hrsh7th/cmp-nvim-lua)
- [LuaSnip](https://github.com/L3MON4D3/LuaSnip)
- [friendly-snippets](https://github.com/rafamadriz/friendly-snippets)
- [mason.nvim](https://github.com/williamboman/mason.nvim)
- [nvim-lspconfig](https://github.com/neovim/nvim-lspconfig)
- [mason-lspconfig.nvim](https://github.com/williamboman/mason-lspconfig.nvim)
- [null-ls.nvim](https://github.com/jose-elias-alvarez/null-ls.nvim)
- [vim-illuminate](https://github.com/RRethy/vim-illuminate)
- [telescope.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim)
- [nvim-treesitter](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter)
- [gitsigns.nvim](https://github.com/lewis6991/gitsigns.nvim)
- [nvim-dap](https://github.com/mfussenegger/nvim-dap)
- [nvim-dap-ui](https://github.com/rcarriga/nvim-dap-ui)
- [DAPInstall.nvim](https://github.com/ravenxrz/DAPInstall.nvim)
- [which-key.nvim](https://github.com/folke/which-key.nvim)
- [vimtex](https://github.com/lervag/vimtex)

---

> The computing scientist's main challenge is not to get confused by the complexities of his own making.

\- Edsger W. Dijkstra

Commit message:

add isntructions for using lau-json5

README.md, after:

# A Basic Stable IDE config for Neovim

> Why does this repo exist?

This config attempts to provide a rock solid fully featured starting point for someone new to Neovim, or just tired of maintaining the basic IDE components of their config.

> What makes it "rock solid"?

All the included plugins are pinned to a version that ensures they are compatible and will not update potentially introducing errors into your config. For every Neovim release I will update this repo along with the community to keep it up to date with the newest versions.

As I mentioned, this config is meant as a starting point for people new to Neovim who want a familiar IDE experience. The config has a very simple structure that makes it easy to add new plugins.

### Migration guide to lazy from packer

Now this config uses `lazy.nvim` as a plugin manager, so if you are migrating from packer you should probably remove
`$HOME/.local/share/nvim` and re-open nvim to re-install the plugins to not face any issues.

## Install Neovim 0.9

You can install Neovim with your package manager e.g. brew, apt, pacman etc.. but remember that when you update your packages Neovim may be upgraded to a newer version.

If you would like to make sure Neovim only updates when you want it to than I recommend installing from source:

**NOTE** Verify the required [build prerequisites](https://github.com/neovim/neovim/wiki/Building-Neovim#build-prerequisites) for your system.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/neovim/neovim.git
cd neovim
git checkout release-0.9
make CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
sudo make install
sudo mv build/bin/nvim /usr/bin/nvim
```


## Install the config

If the user wants tasks.json and launch.json to work with json5. Cargo will need to be installed before installing package lua-json5.
    ```sh
    sudo apt install cargo
    ```

Make sure to remove or backup your current `nvim` directory

```sh
git clone https://github.com/LunarVim/nvim-basic-ide.git ~/.config/nvim
```

Run `nvim` and wait for the plugins to be installed

**NOTE** (You will notice treesitter pulling in a bunch of parsers the next time you open Neovim)

**NOTE** Checkout this file for some predefined keymaps: [keymaps](https://github.com/LunarVim/nvim-basic-ide/tree/master/lua/keymaps.lua)

## Get healthy

Open `nvim` and enter the following:

```
:checkhealth
```

You'll probably notice you don't have support for copy/paste also that python and node haven't been setup

So let's fix that

First we'll fix copy/paste

- On mac `pbcopy` should be builtin

- On Ubuntu

  ```sh
  sudo apt install xsel # for X11
  sudo apt install wl-clipboard # for wayland
  ```

Next we need to install python support (node is optional)

- Neovim python support

  ```sh
  pip install pynvim
  ```

- Neovim node support

  ```sh
  npm i -g neovim
  ```

We will also need `ripgrep` for Telescope to work:

- Ripgrep

  ```sh
  sudo apt install ripgrep
  ```

- vs-code style launch.json and task.json support with json5

Will need cargo to work: 

    ```sh
    sudo apt install cargo
    ```

Then clean and rebuild lua-json5 package in Lazy.


---

**NOTE** make sure you have [node](https://nodejs.org/en/) installed, I recommend a node manager like [fnm](https://github.com/Schniz/fnm).

## LaTeX

For using all functionality of [vimtex](https://github.com/lervag/vimtex): 
```:filetype-plugin-indent-on``` and a remote server needs to be started.
The first is normally taken care of by most modern plugin managers.
The second is done by default by neovim. yeah!


Requires latexmk, latexrun, tectonic, arara.
These are part of LaTeX distros like miktex en texlive.

see ```:help vimtex-requirments``` 

Another thing needed. This time for a live preview. Is a pdf reader.
This config works with zathura. [check ejmastnak's article](https://www.ejmastnak.com/tutorials/vim-latex/pdf-reader/#zathura)


## Fonts

I recommend using the following repo to get a "Nerd Font" (Font that supports icons)

[getnf](https://github.com/ronniedroid/getnf)

## Configuration

### LSP

To add a new LSP

First Enter:

```
:Mason
```

and press `i` on the Language Server you wish to install

Next you will need to add the server to this list: [servers](https://github.com/LunarVim/nvim-basic-ide/tree/master/lua/utils/init.lua#L3)
Note: Builtin LSP doesn't contain all lsps from [nvim-lspconfig](https://github.com/neovim/nvim-lspconfig/blob/master/doc/server_configurations.md#terraform_lsp).

If you want to install any from there, for example terraform_lsp(which adds more functionality than terraformls, like complete resource listing),

1. You can add the lsp name in [mason lsp block](https://github.com/LunarVim/nvim-basic-ide/tree/master/user/utils/init.lua#L3-L13)

```lua
-- lua/utils/init.lua
M.servers = {
	"lua_ls",
	"cssls",
	"html",
	"tsserver",
	"pyright",
	"bashls",
	"jsonls",
	"yamlls",
    	"terraform_lsp" -- New LSP
}
```

2. Manually install the binary of the lsp and put it in your path by downloading the binary or through your package manager. For terraform_lsp [example](https://github.com/juliosueiras/terraform-lsp/releases)

### Formatters and linters

Make sure the formatter or linter is installed and add it to this setup function: [null-ls](https://github.com/LunarVim/nvim-basic-ide/blob/e6b6c96280ca730a2564f2e36050df055acfb1a8/lua/user/null-ls.lua#L22)

**NOTE** Some are already setup as examples, remove them if you want

### Plugins

### You can install new plugins here: [plugins](https://github.com/LunarVim/nvim-basic-ide/tree/master/lua/user)

Heres the wiki for installing new plugins refer to this: [wiki](https://github.com/LunarVim/nvim-basic-ide/wiki/adding_new_plugins)

## Plugins

- [lazy](https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim)
- [plenary](https://github.com/nvim-lua/plenary.nvim)
- [nvim-autopairs](https://github.com/windwp/nvim-autopairs)
- [Comment.nvim](https://github.com/numToStr/Comment.nvim)
- [nvim-ts-context-commentstring](https://github.com/JoosepAlviste/nvim-ts-context-commentstring)
- [nvim-web-devicons](https://github.com/nvim-tree/nvim-web-devicons)
- [nvim-tree.lua](https://github.com/kyazdani42/nvim-tree.lua)
- [bufferline.nvim](https://github.com/akinsho/bufferline.nvim)
- [bufdelete.nvim](https://github.com/famiu/bufdelete.nvim)
- [lualine.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-lualine/lualine.nvim)
- [toggleterm.nvim](https://github.com/akinsho/toggleterm.nvim)
- [project.nvim](https://github.com/ahmedkhalf/project.nvim)
- [impatient.nvim](https://github.com/lewis6991/impatient.nvim)
- [indent-blankline.nvim](https://github.com/lukas-reineke/indent-blankline.nvim)
- [alpha-nvim](https://github.com/goolord/alpha-nvim)
- [tokyonight.nvim](https://github.com/folke/tokyonight.nvim)
- [nvim-cmp](https://github.com/hrsh7th/nvim-cmp)
- [cmp-buffer](https://github.com/hrsh7th/cmp-buffer)
- [cmp-path](https://github.com/hrsh7th/cmp-path)
- [cmp_luasnip](https://github.com/saadparwaiz1/cmp_luasnip)
- [cmp-nvim-lsp](https://github.com/hrsh7th/cmp-nvim-lsp)
- [cmp-nvim-lua](https://github.com/hrsh7th/cmp-nvim-lua)
- [LuaSnip](https://github.com/L3MON4D3/LuaSnip)
- [friendly-snippets](https://github.com/rafamadriz/friendly-snippets)
- [mason.nvim](https://github.com/williamboman/mason.nvim)
- [nvim-lspconfig](https://github.com/neovim/nvim-lspconfig)
- [mason-lspconfig.nvim](https://github.com/williamboman/mason-lspconfig.nvim)
- [null-ls.nvim](https://github.com/jose-elias-alvarez/null-ls.nvim)
- [vim-illuminate](https://github.com/RRethy/vim-illuminate)
- [telescope.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim)
- [nvim-treesitter](https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter)
- [gitsigns.nvim](https://github.com/lewis6991/gitsigns.nvim)
- [nvim-dap](https://github.com/mfussenegger/nvim-dap)
- [nvim-dap-ui](https://github.com/rcarriga/nvim-dap-ui)
- [DAPInstall.nvim](https://github.com/ravenxrz/DAPInstall.nvim)
- [which-key.nvim](https://github.com/folke/which-key.nvim)
- [vimtex](https://github.com/lervag/vimtex)

---

> The computing scientist's main challenge is not to get confused by the complexities of his own making.

\- Edsger W. Dijkstra
